Alpn (#32)
quicwg/quic-v2: draft-ietf-quic-v2.md

# Applicability

This version of QUIC provides no change from QUIC version 1 relating to the
capabilities available to applications. Therefore, most Application Layer
Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) ({{?RFC7301}}) codepoints specified to operate over
QUICv1 can also operate over this version of QUIC. Applications SHOULD NOT
require new ALPNs for QUICv2 unless there is a specific performance or
interoperability concern.

All QUIC extensions defined to work with version 1 also work with version 2.

## The HTTP/3 Exception

> HTTP/3 can use the ALPN codepoint to discover QUIC versions via the Alt-Svc
> HTTP field {{?RFC7838}}. If different QUIC versions use the same HTTP/3 ALPN, a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Alt-Svc HTTP field {{?RFC7838}} allows an HTTP server to inform clients of
which versions of HTTP it supports. However, in order to use this information, clients
also need to select a transport protocol that can carry HTTP.
If multiple QUIC versions were to use the same ALPN to refer to HTTP/3, a
```

client might discover QUIC support via Alt-Svc on a TCP connection, and then

> try QUIC only to find the server is incompatible. Therefore, HTTP/3 is an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attempt to use a QUIC version that the server does not support. Therefore, HTTP/3 is an
```

exception to the principle that new QUIC versions do not require new ALPN
codepoints.  

> Therefore, HTTP/3 servers using QUIC version 2 MUST accept the "h3v2" ALPN for

Reviewer: I would prefer this bikeshed to be painted in "h3q2" color, because "h3v2" sounds like a revision of HTTP/3 to me

# Applicability

This version of QUIC provides no change from QUIC version 1 relating to the
capabilities available to applications. Therefore, most Application Layer
Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) ({{?RFC7301}}) codepoints specified to operate over
QUICv1 can also operate over this version of QUIC. Applications SHOULD NOT
require new ALPNs for QUICv2 unless there is a specific performance or

> interoperability concern.

Reviewer 2: I find this whole paragraph a bit confusing because of the different concepts getting munged together. V2 doesn't change how the TLS handshake works, so why are we saying that most of ALPN can work. 

In my mind it might be clear to state something like it is expected that applications can use QUIC v2 as a direct substitute for QUIC v1 but that there may be implications for how endpoints discover or agree upon the wire version in tandem with authenticated negotiation of an application protocol. For instance, an additional round trip if a client attempts v2 with a v1-only server. We could then go on to to talk about ALPN and rephrase the requirement to say that protocols that would like to avoid performance or interoperability concerns MAY define new ALPN identifiers that explicitly require QUICv2.

All QUIC extensions defined to work with version 1 also work with version 2.

## The HTTP/3 Exception

The Alt-Svc HTTP field {{?RFC7838}} allows an HTTP server to inform clients of
which versions of HTTP it supports. However, in order to use this information, clients

> also need to select a transport protocol that can carry HTTP.

Reviewer 2: Slight nit. Talk of Alt-Svc this isn't outright wrong but it could be more accurate to say something like

HTTP Alternative Services (Alt-Svc) {{?RFC8738}} allow servers to nominate alternative means of interaction such as on a different host, port or protocol. Alt-Svc is the often used to advertise server support for HTTP/3 by including the "h3" ALPN identifier. When clients decide to connect to an HTTP/3 alternate service, they need to select a QUIC version to use.

> If multiple QUIC versions were to use the same ALPN to refer to HTTP/3, a

Reviewer 2: You might rephrase this like

If the "h3" ALPN identifier applied to HTTP/3 over many versions of QUIC

client might discover QUIC support via Alt-Svc on a TCP connection, and then

> attempt to use a QUIC version that the server does not support. Therefore, HTTP/3 is an

Reviewer 2: is the problem solely from TCP to QUIC? Maybe just simplify the lines to 

a client might discover HTTP/3 support and then attempt to use a QUIC version the server does not support

exception to the principle that new QUIC versions do not require new ALPN
codepoints.  

Therefore, HTTP/3 servers using QUIC version 2 MUST accept the "h3q2-01" ALPN
for QUICv2 connections. Clients SHOULD request this ALPN over QUICv2. Servers
MAY accept the "h3" ALPN over version 2 to improve compatibility with QUICv2

> clients supporting unmodified applications, but MUST NOT advertise the "h3"

Reviewer 2: what is an unmodified application? HTTP/3 settings come after the TLS handshake so there's not a way to predict what the application might do beyond the ALPN

> ALPN via Alt-Svc unless they also support QUIC version 1.

Reviewer 2: wrong line (sorry) but this MUST NOT advertise "h3" requirement seems hard to implement in practice. Plus the server advertising "h3" could be a totally different entity to the alternative. Consider, in a new sentence, something like

The "h3" ALPN identifier indicates support for HTTP/3 over QUIC version 1. It SHOULD only be used in Alt-Svc when the alternative is known to support QUIC version 1.

> A client request for either ALPN does not prevent a compatible version

Reviewer 2: The term request is a bit overloaded. Maybe it would be clearer to say something like

 "The client choice of ALPN during the handshake doe not prevent a compatible version"

Contact: QUIC WG

This document also requests that IANA add the following entry to the TLS
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol IDs registry:

Protocol: HTTP/3 over QUICv2

> Identification Sequence: 0x68 0x33 0x76 0x32 ("h3v2")

Reviewer: We need to do the same thing that we did during h3 development, which is to add draft versions: `h3v2-03` refers to "HTTP/3 over draft-ietf-quic-v2-03"

Author: The next version of the draft is intended to use the final version and ALPN.

Reviewer: Uh... I'd be more comfortable trying out a draft in production before we burn the codepoints. The QUIC version can always be regenerated randomly, but the ALPN codepoint would be trickier

Author: OK, h3q2-01
